{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\kerning2\b\f0\fs48\lang9 1]what is a program ?\par
\b0\fs24 it is of instructions, a program is written in a programming language(like c, python,java)\par
and is used to solve a program or complete a task.\par
\b\fs48 2] what is programming ?\par
\b0\fs24 programming means writing instruction for a computer using programming language.\par
Ex:- python code.\par
\b\fs48 3] types of programming languages ?\par
\b0 .\fs24 middle level language\par
Ex:-C language, C++ language.\fs48\par
.\fs24 low level language \par
Ex:-machine language.\fs48\par
.\fs24 high level language\par
Ex:-object based language.\par
\b\fs48 4] www- world wide web & how internet works\par
\b0\fs24 www is a collection of wedsites and pages connected thorugh the internet world .\par
www is a system of websites pages on the internet that you can access using a browser.\par
the www , along with internet , enables the retrieval and dispaly of text and media to your device.\par
\b\fs48 5] network layers on client and server\par
\b0\fs24 the network is responsible for sending data from, the client to the sever across different networks.\par
1. on client side \par
   ->breaks data into packet \par
2. on sever side \par
    -> passes data to upper layers \par
\b\fs48 6] client and servers\par
\b0\fs24 client : A client is a device a program that requests services or data.\par
server : A server is a system that provides data or service to clients.\par
\par
1. key points \par
     client = request \par
     server = response\par
\b\fs48 7] types of internet connections \par
    \b0\fs24 1. Digital subscriber line (DSL)\par
       2. Cable internet \par
       3. Fiber optic\par
       4. satellite internet\par
       5. Wireless\par
       6. Broadband over power lines (BPL)\par
\b\fs48 8] application security\par
\b0\fs24 application security refers to security precations used at the application level to prevent the or hijacking of data or code within the application.\par
it covers the entire application life cycle, including requirements analysis, design, implementation, testing and maintenance.\par
\b\fs48 9] software applications & types of application software\par
     \b0\fs24 it is a type of software application that helps in the automation of the task based on the users input.\par
        it can perfrom single or multiple tasks at the same period of time.\par
        the user may use the computer for browsing the internet, accessing to email service, attending meetings, and palying games.\par
        Different high- level language are used to build application software.\par
types of application software :\par
   1. application software\par
   2. system software\par
   3. driver software\par
   4. middle software\par
   5. programming software\par
\b\fs48 10] software architecture \par
\b0\fs24 software architecture is thew overall design or structure\par
          -> in shorts \par
software architecture = blueprint of software system\par
simple definitin: \par
software architecture = hoe different parts of software are organized and work together.\par
\b\fs48 11] layer in software architecture\par
\b0\fs24 layer means group of related fuctionality\par
       .   presentation layer\par
       .   business layer\par
       .   persistence layer\par
       .   database layer\par
Ex:- teblet, collections\par
\b\fs48 12] software environment \par
\b0\fs24 A  software environment is the complete setup in which software application run.\par
it includes all the system and setting needed to develop run and mange software.\par
in short:- software environment = everything required to build and run a program.\par
Ex:- \par
       .   VS code\par
       .   run program in computer\par
       .   node.js\par
\b\fs48 13] source code \par
\b0\fs24  source code is the source of a computer program. it contains declarations, instructions, functions, loops and other statements, which act as instructions for the program on how to function.\par
->when you will run your code two things are most important \par
    1.  com piler\par
    2.  interpreter \par
\b\fs48 14] GitHub and introductions\b0\fs24\par
        github is one of the most popular for developers to sharecode and work on project together. it's free, easy to use, and has become central in the movement to ward open-source software.\par
        by tracking their individual changes, git can bring evreything together to the final version.\par
\b\fs48 15] student account in github \par
\b0\fs24         A github students accounts officially called the github student developeris special program for student that gives you free tools, software and benfites for learning development.\par
               .  if you creating your account in github \par
free github pro\par
free domain name\par
cloud service credit\par
development tools\par
learning platform\par
\b\fs48 16] types of software\par
\b0\fs24        1. application software\par
       2. system software\par
       3. driver software\par
       4. middleware software\par
       5. programming software\par
\b\fs48 17] git and gitub training\par
\b0\fs24 git is version control system.\par
github is a cloude platfrom here you store git repositories online.\par
      .  install git\par
      .  Basic git commands\b\fs48\par
18] application software\par
\b0\fs24          the most common type of software, application software is a computer software packpage that performs a specific function for a user, or in some cases, for another application.\par
Ex modern applications include office suites, graphics software, database and database management programs, web browsers, word processors, softwaredevelopment tools, image editors and communication platforms.\par
\b\fs48 19] software development process\par
\b0\fs24 software development life cycle is a step by step used to create software.\par
      .   Requirement analysis\par
      .   Planning\par
      .   Design\par
      .   development \par
      .   testing\par
      .   Maintenance\par
      .   depolyment \par
\b\fs48 20] software requirement \par
\b0\fs24 software requirement are the needs and expectations of users from a software system.\par
they describe what the software should do how it should work.\par
\b\fs48 21] software analysis\b0\par
\fs24 software analy is the process of studying and understanding the requirement of a system before development.\par
it means analyzing what the software should do how it should work.\par
\b\fs48 22] system software\b0\fs24\lang1033\par
System design is the process of defining the architecture, components, data flow,and scalability of a software system.\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Client->server architecture\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}database\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f1\fs44 23] \f0\fs52 software testing\b0\fs24\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Software testing is the process of verifying and vaildating that a software application:\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Requirement analysis\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Testing planning\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}Test case design\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}Test execution\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}Defect reporting\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f1\fs44 24] \f0\fs52 Maintenance\par
\b0\fs24 the process of updating, fixing, and improving software after it is developed and deployed.\par
it means keeping the working the software properly overtime.\par
the process of modifying and updating software after deployment to fix issues and improve performance.\par
\b\fs48 25] development \b0\par
\fs24 if you are chossing web development platform then you have a mainly three languages:\par
1. PHP\par
2. JAVA\par
3. PYTHON\par
\b\fs48 26]web application \par
\b0\fs24 web application testing best practices need to balance speed, user experience, and real world behabvior.\par
use tool likes:\par
1. frontend\par
2. supertest \par
3. cypress\par
\b\fs48 27] designing\par
\b0\fs24\par
designing software testing for a web application, think of it as buliding a system, not just writing test cases.\par
Ex. UI layer (top)\par
      API (middle)\par
\fs48    \fs24 Unit layer (base)\fs48\par
\b 28] mobile application\par
\b0\fs24 mobile application is a bit trickier than web apps beacuse you're dealing with devices, OS versions,conditions.\par
tools:\par
    . JUnit (android)\par
    . XCTest (iOS)\par
\b\fs48 29] DFD \par
\b0\fs24 a data flow diagram is a simple way to visualuinze how data moves though a sytem- where it comes from, how it's processed, and where it goes.\par
it includes 4 main components:\par
1. External entites\par
2. processes\par
3. data stores\par
4. data flows \par
\b\fs48 30] desktop application \par
\b0\fs24 A desktop application is software that run on a computer and does and require a web browser.\par
desktop application is types of software that is installed and run on a computer or laptop.\par
\b\fs48 31] flow chart \par
\b0\fs24 A flowchart is a simple diagram that shows step-by-step flow of a process or logic using symbols and arrows.\par
A flowchart represents:\par
   . Sequence of steps\par
   . Decisions\par
   . inputs/outputs\par
\fs48\par
\fs24\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\par
\par
\lang9\par
\b\fs48\par
  \par
\b0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\fs22\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\kerning0\f2\par
}
 